*: add docs of backup and restore using Dumpling and Lightning (#10882) (#10939)
pingcap/docs: backup-and-restore-using-dumpling-lightning.md

---
title: Back up and Restore Data Using Dumpling and TiDB Lightning
summary: Learn how to use Dumpling and TiDB Lightning to back up and restore full data of TiDB.
---

# Back up and Restore Data Using Dumpling and TiDB Lightning

This document introduces how to use Dumpling and TiDB Lightning to back up and restore full data of TiDB.

If you need to back up a small amount of data (for example, less than 50 GB) and do not require high backup speed, you can use [Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md) to export data from the TiDB database and then use [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md) to import the data into another TiDB database. For more information about backup and restore, see [Use BR to Back Up Cluster Data](/br/br-usage-backup.md) and [Use BR to Restore Cluster Data](/br/br-usage-restore.md).

## Requirements

- Install and start Dumpling:

    ```shell
    tiup install dumpling && tiup dumpling
    ```

- Install and start TiDB Lightning:

    ```shell
    tiup install tidb lightning && tiup tidb lightning
    ```

- [Grant the source database privileges required for Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md#export-data-from-tidbmysql)

> - [Grant the target database privileges required for TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-requirements.md#privileges-of-the-target-database)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Grant the target database privileges required for TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-requirements.md#downstream-privilege-requirements)
```

## Resource requirements

**Operating system**: The example in this document uses fresh CentOS 7 instances. You can deploy a virtual machine either on your local host or in the cloud. Because TiDB Lightning consumes as much CPU resources as needed by default, it is recommended that you deploy it on a dedicated server. If this is not possible, you can deploy it on a single server together with other TiDB components (for example, `tikv-server`) and then configure `region-concurrency` to limit the CPU usage from TiDB Lightning. Usually, you can configure the size to 75% of the logical CPU.

**Memory and CPU**: Because TiDB Lightning consumes high resources, it is recommended to allocate more than 64 GiB of memory and more than 32 CPU cores. To get the best performance, make sure that the CPU core to memory (GiB) ratio is greater than 1:2.

**Disk space**:

It is recommended to use Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage (GCS), or Azure Blob Storage as the external storage. With such a cloud storage, you can store backup files quickly without being limited by the disk space.

If you need to save data of one backup task to the local disk, note the following limitations:

> - Dumpling requires a disk space that can store the whole data source (or to store all upstream tables to be exported). To calculate the required space, see [Downstream storage space requirements](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-requirements.md#storage-space-of-the-target-database).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Dumpling requires a disk space that can store the whole data source (or to store all upstream tables to be exported). To calculate the required space, see [Downstream storage space requirements](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-requirements.md#downstream-storage-space-requirements).
```
